[MUSIC]
>> Douglas: And so I wrote my own book
about my experience with JavaScript and
with JSLint which is called
JavaScript: The Good Parts.
And the surprising thing about this
book is it is still a bestseller in
its category, which is extremely rare for
software books.
Most software books are obsolete
before they're printed,
and it's because things tend to change and
roll over so quickly in software.
But it turns out the things that
I was saying in this book are for
the most part right.
And so it's still a relevant book even
though JavaScript has gone through
two major standard revisions,
this book is still pretty good.
So it's not universally adored though,
there are lots of arguments against
the idea of good parts and I'd like to
run through some of those if I may.
The first one, it's just a matter
of opinion, it's your opinion,
my opinions different,
one opinions as good as another.
So there, turns out that's not the case,
that I am the maintainer of JSLint.
And as such I get bug reports from people
from all over the world telling me I
just spent two weeks
chasing this thing down.
And it was due to some weird edge case
in the grammar of the language that
no one had ever noticed,
and it just crippled us,
hurt us at a bad time and
could you have JSLint look for that?
Cuz, if you can then no one else
will ever have to endure that.
So whenever it makes sense to,
I incorporate those things.
So if you're using JSLint, then you
will never experience those things,
that is not an opinion, that is a fact.
Every feature is an essential tool,
I need every tool available
in order to do my work.
But that's simply not true when we can
show that you can write better programs by
not using all of the features.
So if you can write a better program
without using a feature that feature
is not essential.
But this feature is sometimes useful and
that sounds like an important thing,
I need to be able to use it
because it's sometimes useful.
Except it turns out everything
is sometimes useful.
You cannot identify anything which is so
dangerous, so toxic,
so disgusting,
that is not also sometimes useful.
Sometimes useful is about as
strong a statement as it exists.
It sounds like it's a lot
more than that but it isn't,
it actually is not an argument.
So if the reason for using a feature
is because it's sometimes useful,
you simply do not have an argument.
I have a right to use every feature.
Now at this point
the argument has changed.
We're no longer talking about what's
the best way to write programs,
we're now talking about our rights.
And it sounds really important and
righteous to be talking about rights and
defending [SOUND], except if you follow
this argument to its conclusion.
Ultimately it goes like this,
do you have the right to write crap?
Yes I have the right to write crap.
So now we're arguing about do you have
the right to write crap is that true or
not, I don't know,
I don't care it's not important.
What's more important is you
have a responsibility to
write code that works well and
is free of error.
>> Douglas: I need the freedom
to express myself,
I'm a poet in the way I express my
poetry is by leaving out my semicolons.
>> Douglas: I need to
reduce my keystrokes.
This is a really insidious
one big again because we
imagine that we spend most of
our time typing but we don't.
So if you were to take all the clean
finished code you finish in a year,
you could type it in a day.
So that raises a question, what are you
doing with the other 99% of your time?
Keystrokes is not the important thing.
If I could figure out a way to increase
your keystrokes by a factor of ten and
cut your errors in half,
that would be a huge win.
Unfortunately, I don't
have that formula for
you but that's the sort of
ratios we're looking at.
It is an insult to suggest that
I would ever make a mistake with
a dangerous feature.
Inferior people could obviously
have problems by doing that but
I must have satisfaction.
>> Douglas: And then there's a good
reason those features were added
to the language and I can tell you from
experience, that is absolutely not true.
I've seen how things get put into
languages, and those things happen for
all kinds of reasons, and
they're not all good ones.
The creator of JavaScript,
Brendan Eich talks about foot guns.
A foot gun is a feature of the language
that you use to shoot yourself in the foot
[SOUND] and he put a lot of those in
JavaScript and I think he regrets it.
And from time to time he would
tell the standards committee,
let's not be adding too many more foot
guns and they don't always listen to him.
So you can always find more but
there are guys who look [SOUND],
I almost always miss watch this.
>> [SOUND]
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Douglas: [LAUGH] So
the purpose of a programming
language is to aid programmers in
producing error-free programs,
that's the whole deal.
So we used to think that it was not
possible to write good programs in
JavaScript because the language was such
a mess that just wasn't possible, so
no reason to even try.
Turned out that was not true that
it is not only possible to write good
programs in JavaScript, it is necessary.
It is so easy to go off the rails
with this language it requires
tremendous discipline, maybe more
discipline than any other language.
So you really have to bring it
when you're using this language.
So there's a lot of confusion still
about Java in JavaScript because
they kind of look similar and
they have the same name.
Sometimes I'm introduced as
a Java experts which I am but
I'm usually invited because
I'm a JavaScript expert and
it's similar to the confusion we have
between Star Trek and Star Wars.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Douglas: We've got two science
fiction franchises with
basically the same name.
And from ten feet away,
they kinda look like the same show.
But we know they're not the same thing,
right?
The differences are really significant.
In Star Trek, you've got phasers,
and photon torpedoes,
you've got uniforms, down regulations,
everything's regulations, right?
Whereas in Star Wars,
you've got light sabres and blasters.
You've got proton torpedoes,
completely different torpedoes.
You've got sand,
I don't like sand and chaos.
So you know which one
of these is JavaScript,
well obviously Star Wars right.
In fact when you're
working with JavaScript,
JavaScript presents you with a choice.
You can go Jedi or you can go Jar Jar.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Douglas: And
quite a lot of our brothers
like to go Jar Jar so.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Douglas: So
one thing I've observed, two things I've
observed are the fantasy of infallibility
and the futility of faultlessness.
I see the fantasy of infallibility
especially in younger guys,
who think they have such that skills.
That they can write just any crap in
it and they're gonna get away with it,
that they can just do stupid and
that it's gonna be all right.
Then, the futility of faultlessness,
I see this more among older guys.
Guys have been doing this for a long time.
I've never seen a girl write,
it's never gonna go right, why even try?
Just so two very different perspectives
but they both lead to the same thing.
Danger driven development where you
doing crazy reckless stuff in the code
just to keep it interesting
cuz hey we don't do that.
And don't forget your semicolons, right.
So one of the things that makes
programming difficult to manage,
is the difficulty of scheduling.
That usually when we're doing something,
we're doing it for
the first time we've ever done it.
And so we don't know, there's no way we
could know how long it's gonna take but
we'll make guesses and our guesses.
Cuz we're optimists
are usually wildly wrong but
that's the way it goes but what's even
harder is scheduling the second time.
Which is the time B, the time it
takes to make the code work right,
now that should be zero right.
You should write it and
it should be right and we're done.
But that's not the case,
that often time B is greater than time A,
I've seen cases where time B is infinite.
That's what happens when
the codes finished but
then the project is cancelled
before they can get it to work.
That happens way too often actually,
so if you do anything in time
A that increases the likelihood of time
B being bigger, you're doing it wrong.
That's not the time to be saving time.
So we should always take
the time to code well.
Sometimes there's this idea that,
well we're just doing this quick and
dirty thing so let's just be really
sloppy and get it done fast.
Except getting it done still
means it has to work and
getting it to work is still going
to be easier if you write it well.
That the time it takes to write it
well is going to be less time that
takes to make it work right
if it's not written well.